Created Java's ArrayList Get() method term entry (#1524)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/array-list/terms/get/get.md

---
Title: '.get()'

> Description: 'Brings the element present in a specified position in an ArrayList.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the element present in a specified position in an ArrayList
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.get()`** method brings the element at a specified position within an `ArrayList` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.get()`** method retrieves the element at some index in an `ArrayList`.
```

Reviewer: Add a mention to what `.get()` returns if the element is not found.

## Syntax

```pseudo
arrayListInstance.get(index);
```

> An element at a specified `index` is brought in an `arrayListInstance`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The element at index `index` in `arrayListInstance` is returned.
```

> The element at index `index` is `arrayListInstance` is returned. If the index is out of range, an `IndexOutOfBoundsException` will be thrown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The element at index `index` in `arrayListInstance` is returned. If the index is out of range, an `IndexOutOfBoundsException` error will be thrown.
```

## Example

> In the example below, an empty `ArrayList`, `studentList`, is created containing a few elements of type `String`. The `.get()` method retrieves the students at indexes 0 and 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, an empty `ArrayList`, `studentList`, is created and populated with several elements of type `String`. The `.get()` method retrieves the students at indexes 0 and 1.
```

```java

> import java.util.ArrayList;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Students.java
import java.util.ArrayList;
```

> In the example below, an empty `ArrayList` instance `studentList` is created and can hold `String`-type elements. Next, a few elements are added with the [`.add()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list/add) method. Lastly, two students are brought up with the `.get()` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, an empty `ArrayList`, `studentList`, is created containing a few elements of type `String`. The `.get()` method retrieves the students at indexes 0 and 1.
```

public class Students {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    ArrayList<String> studentList = new ArrayList<>();

    // Add new values to the studentList
    studentList.add("John");
    studentList.add("Lily");
    studentList.add("Samantha");
    studentList.add("Tony");

>     // `.get()` method stores element's value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // `.get()` method extracts the element's value
```

>     String StudentOne = studentList.set(0);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    String StudentOne = studentList.get(0);
```

>     String StudentTwo = studentList.set(1);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    String StudentTwo = studentList.get(1);
```

    // Output ArrayList and searched elements
    System.out.println("ArrayList: " + studentList);
    System.out.println("Searched Elements: " + StudentOne + " and " + StudentTwo);
  }
}
```

> The output should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will look like this:
```
